Unit V7 from DS Lenker.
I'm entering Hatherway Flats. ninth story.
I'm headed to flat 942. suspect at large.
- DS Lenker. from Unit 7. received.
- Inside.
We're on our way.
ETA three minutes.
Please proceed with caution.
Police!
- Entering flat.
- Copy that. Two minutes away.
Call the police.
No. stop!
Police!
Stop!
No.
That's him.
"Clive Silcox."
One hundred percent that's him.
He's on the database. what's his previous?
Sundry assault claims. domestic assault.
membership of a proscribed organization.
And some far right outfit.
I think combat league.
Yeah. nothing that led to a conviction.
How far back do they go?
The assault claims?
August 2009.
Police called to a disturbance
on Michaels Street.
Michaels Street. He's local.
Why? What's your interest?
The victim. Maria De Souza.
I believe she was my Hayes Lane caller.
Tuesday night.
The anonymous 999?
Yes. sir.
Violent boyfriend.
implying he killed Adelaide Burrowes.
I asked for extra support.
do you remember?
- June...
- And now...
He could have neighbors.
friends from work. ex-partners.
- If he has a history of coercion...
- Look...
No. I had him.
You did your best.
Main thing is you're okay.
That's what matters.
Well. I'll tell you what.
if there is anything in this other murder.
Adelaide Burrowes...
we will investigate.
Got my word on that.
We'll spare nobody's blushes.
Bigger they are...
Kim. What can I do you for?
...harder they fall.
Bri. I hear you have
a murder in your parish.
Excuse me. Hi. excuse me.
I'm looking for someone called
June Lenker.
- She was bought in here quite a while ago.
- Fuck.
Over there.
Okay. bye-bye.
- Hi.
- Hiya.
- You okay?
- Yeah.
- You sure?
Come.
What have they done with your clothes?
Well. they've taken them. It's just for...
It's for evidence and fibers and DNA...
- It's normal.
- Okay.
Normal? Normal.
There's nothing normal about this...
Leo. it's all right.
It's just... It's all cuts and bruises.
Sorry. I don't know what's wrong with me.
No. it's okay. Just wait...
wait a second. okay?
Excuse me. Sorry. Excuse me.
It's all right. baby.
Are there any doctors working here today?
Are there... 'Cause my wife. she's
a police officer and she's been assaulted.
Leo.
Leo. they've already given me
the all-clear.
I'm just waiting for the consultant
to sign me out.
Yeah. Okay. She needs to see a doctor.
- Okay?
- Okay.
- So. can she see him now. please?
- Yes. one second.
Thank you.
It's okay.
Babe. what are you doing?
Nothing.
Is that what I think it is?
- Are you posting that on your socials?
- No.
Oh. my God. you are. Let me see.
- Come on. Mum.
- Wow.
Jacob. I mean. you're... What?
You're literally...
You're fetishizing your mum's injuries.
I hope your dad's not following you.
No way. I blocked him.
Although. I got 13 likes and rising.
Is that good?
You sound about 80 years old.
Someone just called me a badass.
I can actually live with that. "badass."
Sorry.
Is this what it takes for you
to be proud of me?
This is him.
Clive Silcox.
This is him. Clive Silcox.
So. anyone that might have
come across him.
Ex-girlfriend. sister. family.
Anything could help.
And this is my direct line.
This is my new number.
Thanks. babe. Lifesaver.
White. one sugar?
Two. actually. I'm slipping.
No. it's fine.
Can't believe you're still on nights.
You get used to it.
I'm not here for me. It's just work.
It's a long shot.
but I'm trying to trace this man.
Clive Silcox.
I'll ask around.
June. there's been a development
with Hatherway Towers. I'm sorry.
Just give us a call.
Sorry. excuse me. Excuse me.
Sir. You know
I was first responder on the scene?
Let me stop you right there.
As it turns out. this man. Silcox.
is already the subject
of a live investigation.
Really?
Yes. Apparently. a young woman assaulted
on her way home from work last October.
T and C came to the view it was better to
fold this murder into the existing team.
Have you found him yet?
Any questions I would refer you
to my colleague. DI Gearing.
She's the organ grinder.
I'm just a bit of window dressing.
Wait. so sh...
Does she still think he's here?
I don't like the look of that.
Sir. before she died. the victim. Maria.
she identified herself to the emergency
handler as the Hayes Lane caller.
- The Hayes Lane caller?
- The anonymous call that I...
- I brought to you on Wednesday.
- Oh. yeah.
So. if you manage to apprehend
the suspect.
I would like your permission to
interview him regarding those allegations.
- Allegations?
- The murder of Adelaide Burrowes.
Two calls. same woman.
That's your hypothesis?
- It is.
- That's very. very neat.
No. Maria De Souza. she told
the call handler. "We talked before..."
Yeah. we talked before. Talked before.
Didn't say where. Didn't say when.
Well. we can't just rule it out.
I mean. there are physical similarities
between these women.
They have a similar build.
They are both Hispanic.
They sound the same.
I was told you saw her come off.
Yeah.
Well. I don't wanna talk down to you.
but I heard a playback of the call
and what you said. okay?
Advice you gave
in the last moments of her life.
That was spot on.
You stood up.
You were with her.
She's the caller.
- Okay.
- She's the Hayes Lane caller.
- And there is a good chance...
- You see what you want to see.
We all do it.
I just wanna interview the man.
You and me both. Detective Sergeant.
Alas. he is nowhere to be found.
It's been 10 hours.
You are wasting time.
I'm gonna put that down
to the bump on your head.
I'm fine.
No. You were the victim of an assault.
- What makes you think he's still here?
- It's not a hangover.
You're wasting time. wasting resources.
- You should be out there looking.
- Go home. Get some sleep.
We're on the same side here.
Listen. He had a girlfriend
a long time ago.
Same like me.
He said. "Dumb bitch. Never listen."
Never keep him. you know. happy.
- Can you tell me your name?
- Maria.
Maria. All right. Maria.
I call you. I talk to you before.
Yeah. I remember.
He stabbed her many. many times
with the same knife he put in me.
There's a man in prison
doing 24 years for killing her.
And he keeps saying this guy
in Whitecross...
He says he's such a loser and a...
You dumb. stupid bitch.
- Tell me you understand.
- I understand.
- Get her...
- "That dumb bitch. Never listen."
Never keep him. you know. happy.
So. we've made a log of your vehicle
searches on the national database.
As you see. there's no case number
for any of these. No attributable crime.
So. what we need you to do is to go back
through each of these searches
and find and input
the corresponding case number.
As I'm sure you're aware.
it is a violation...
Walk back through your duty log.
dig out the case numbers.
get this all squared away. all right?
Sir. I want to request a forensic voice
analysis to test the two emergency calls.
Hayes Lane and last night's victim.
to confirm is it
or is it not the same woman.
Not our case. June.
Think that's been made very clear.
Sir. The Hayes Lane caller.
it was flagged by Command and Control.
You asked me to follow it up.
If the caller was Maria De Souza.
then we can close the file.
That's all I'm asking.
Okay. look.
I can see you're upset.
All right?
Honestly. frankly.
spare a thought for Jim.
He's a man down on the Oakmoor
burglaries. Aren't you. mate?
- So. maybe just do that. Yeah?
- Yes. sir.
Are we ready?
And again! Let's go!
Hey. hey. hey. hey. hey!
Now. here we go.
To the side. Come on.
- Everything's gonna be fine for you.
- I just don't want people staring.
Oh. come on. You're the bride.
sweetheart. It's your big day.
You've gotta flaunt it.
Are you Doris Mathis?
Yes. We're almost done here.
Just go on through.
I don't know. I just don't know.
Come and have a look at the mirror.
- Wow.
- Yeah. you see?
- See you next week.
- Okay. See you next week then.
Bye.
- How can I help?
- She's gonna look amazing.
Thank you.
My name is DS June Lenker.
I'm sorry to bother you.
All right.
Latisha. give us a minute. will you. love?
Sure.
We're trying to trace
the whereabouts of this man.
His name's Clive Silcox.
He's wanted by police.
We're trying to get a steer on where
he might be sheltering? He's local.
So. we're just reaching out to anyone
that might have come across him
or might have been acquainted with him.
- So. do you think that you might...
- Tell me.
what's a nice woman like you
doing in the police?
What about your son?
I mean. maybe they knew each other
back in the day.
You've been talking to my Errol?
No. I mean. why? Do you...
Do you think they knew each other?
I mean. might he have gone
to Errol's flat? Maybe he knew Adelaide?
Adelaide?
Why are you bringing up Adelaide?
Listen. love.
I'm not new to this.
My bullshit radar is better than most.
I'm just trying to get some help here.
You got a card. Miss DS... What is it?
Lenker. June Lenker.
You listen to me. DS Lenker.
if you think you can come up here.
trying to pin some fresh trouble
on my Errol...
- No. that's not what I'm trying to do.
- Get out. please.
Who sent you?
Did he send you?
- Who?
- Hegarty.
And all his boys.
His crew. they lie and they lie.
And they...
They took away my son. you know.
And when you try standing up. very polite.
"I'm sorry. I think you've made
a mistake here."
A mistake! That's all.
You tell him from me.
"I'm still here."
Right. Clive Silcox.
March 2011.
he's residing at 24B Lake Street.
Lake street. Round the corner.
Employed at Rudin's. Deliveries.
The old Yiddish place?
Christ. that takes me back.
Any alibi?
Not that I could find.
Pity.
And we never interviewed him at the time?
Of course not.
What? We gotta go chasing
after every toe-rag in London?
Yeah. we had our man.
Look. anything that puts Silcox
near Adelaide. Errol Mathis or that flat...
Anything that she can use to get at me
or the investigation.
I need to know.
Okay?
I wasn't harassing her.
Well. that's how it felt to her.
So either you tell me right now what
has my client got to do with Clive Silcox?
Or I swear to God. my next call
is to the Police Complaints Authority.
There is a chance that Silcox
might have information
relevant to Adelaide's murder.
So anything that connects Silcox
to Adelaide or Errol. anything at all...
"Information relevant?"
What are you saying? He's a witness?
Or a suspect?
I can't. It's confidential.
For God's sake.
- Chloe?
- Yeah?
You've got mates at Hackney Downs. right?
Yeah?
I need a favor.
Look. if this is about your murder case...
- And I'm not getting involved.
- Come on. Chloe.
You know I can't get into it. all right?
It's confidential.
Please.
I wouldn't ask if it wasn't important.
How big is the favor?
- Here you go.
- Thanks.
Strongest Java in Dalston.
Don't thank me until you've tried it.
So. anyway. I spoke to Doris.
and Errol went to school with him.
- With who?
- Clive Silcox.
St. Joseph's Academy.
But Clive was like two years above.
so not friends exactly.
But Doris said she knew the family. Kinda.
Kinda? Kinda as in?
Errol had a cousin. Jameel.
who had the hots for Silcox's sister.
But Doris put her foot down. so...
So Errol knew him?
Errol knew him.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
Do I come over as aggressive to you?
Aggressive? As in? S...
As in antsy.
Arsey. Shouty. Crazy.
I mean. feel free to jump in at any point.
Roy said I was upset.
But it's just code. isn't it?
It's just crazy-lady code.
- June.
- What?
You've been through a trauma. all right.
So. he's entitled to ask.
So I'm overthinking.
You're a sexy Parker. you know that?
That's a weirdly niche compliment.
- Like that?
- Nah.
- Oh. fuck.
- Do you wanna finish yourself off?
- No.
I can get an ice cream if you want.
You okay in there?
I'm in a bit of trouble actually.
Come on.
Here. here. here!
I don't understand.
So. you searched the database. so what?
Every search has to be work-related.
You're supposed to attach a case number.
So?
So. it wasn't for me. It was for Mum.
Okay. so how many times?
Don't know. Eight?
Eight? June. Why didn't you tell me?
Because I knew what you'd say.
And I can't have her
being sectioned again. okay?
I'm not doing that to her. Not anymore.
Okay. so this is the big fix?
You make illegal database searches?
None of this would have happened
if it wasn't for that fucking man.
- Hegarty. Blah-blah-blah.
- You just said that it was a random audit.
He gets around. He knows people.
He knows everyone.
All right. so you nip it in the bud.
Talk to your line manager.
- Roy?
- Yeah. Tell him what you did. big deal.
That is literally the worst thing
that I could do.
- Why?
- Because he's a policy nut.
He'll think he's duty bound to report it.
Okay. So. go up the food chain.
Talk to that assistant commissioner.
You know. the one you were going on about.
The one that pushed you for CID.
Just pick up the phone?
"Yo. remember me?
I'm that woman that you were nice to
at a recruitment weekend in Hounslow."
- Why not?
- Because I'm not you. okay?
I don't get to just walk through life
taking myself for granted.
It's not a crime to be assertive.
Assertive?
See. I'm not 100% sure what that means.
Right. So this is a privilege thing.
I don't know. I don't know. Leo.
I guess what I do know is that
I wouldn't shout at some poor A&E nurse
who happens to be there just
'cause I felt like blowing off some steam.
- Is that being assertive? I don't know.
- I'm sorry. what?
Maybe. Probably. I don't know.
- Ref!
- Again. Listen. come away. That's a foul.
What's going on?
- Fouled him.
- Did he?
Yeah. Tripped him.
Jake. just listen to him. mate.
You're gonna get a warning now. okay?
Any more of that and you're off. Okay?
Right. Come on. play on.
Come on. Jakey. Head up. mate.
Look. listen. all right.
I apologize. okay?
If I was rude to some nurse.
but I was in a bad way.
I was upset because
I just got a call. yeah?
And for a minute... Are you even listening?
I thought you were dead.
Come on. mate.
You know...
sometimes I don't know
if we're on the same fucking planet.
- Hello?
- Hi. June.
It's Becca here
from the Shelter Moore Street.
- Yeah. Hi.
- You were inquiring about Clive Silcox?
- J?
- The thing is. we found...
It's work.
Okay.
Well. then we'll get the bus. shall we?
See. someone's come forward...
It's okay. It's fine.
Hi. are you Dawn? Dawn Taylor?
- That's right.
- Sorry to bother you.
My name is DS June Lenker.
I'm trying to trace a man
you were acquainted with. Clive Silcox?
I gather you knew each other back in 2018.
Do you have any idea
where he may be found?
Or any friends? Places he might...
- No.
- No? Okay.
Come with me.
Okay. Well. thank you for your time.
Why not?
My mum.
Zero Yankee Delta. This is DS June Lenker.
I am at 70 Verlaine Road.
I believe
I have a sighting on Clive Silcox.
All received. over.
Support vehicles are on their way.
How far away?
Zero. delta. bravo. ETA six minutes.
Six minutes away. Remain where you are.
Wait for the support team. over.
Copy.
Zero Delta Yankee. There is a disturbance
inside of the house. over.
Stand by. Support team's on its way.
Fuck this.
Police! Open the door.
Police!
Zero Delta Yankee.
There is an assault inside of the house.
- What's happening?
- Can I get access to your garden?
- Yeah.
- Stand by for the unit support.
All units. All units.
Zero Delta Yankee.
Urgent firefighting assistance requested.
Zero Delta Yankee. please repeat.
I said the house is on fire!
Requesting urgent firefighting assistance.
Hello?
Dawn?
- Is anybody in here?
- Help! We're in here!
Get away from the door!
Get out! Go downstairs!
Go!
June.
Yeah?
This did not come from me.
Swear.
You got the pathology report?
I swear.
Delete it the second that you are done.
Yeah.
Ready?
He does know
that I'll be attending the meeting?
Yes. As a matter of fact. he suggested it.
Well. thank you both for taking the time...
- It's the least we could do.
- So. breaking news.
Clive Silcox confessed to the murder.
Fantastic.
He rolled over easy. didn't he just?
Murder of Maria De Souza. Evading arrest.
Well. he picked on
the wrong officer there.
Indeed.
We asked. "Why did you kill her?"
You know what he said?
She spilt paint on the rug.
- No.
- Paint on the rug.
Just when you think you've heard it all.
CPS gave us the nod. so we charged him
as of three hours ago.
So. we're good to go.
I'd like your permission
to interview Silcox.
- Regarding?
- The murder of Adelaide Burrowes.
It's an old case. It's twen...
Two thousand and...
2011. Eleven. It's an old murder.
Boyfriend. Errol Mathis. serving...
- Twenty-four years.
- Yeah. I just want to talk to him.
Yeah. Okay. I think
we should clear the air here. you know?
And thrash this one out.
Okay. Detective Le...
Do you mind if I call you June?
- Sure.
- Okay. June.
What new information do you have
putting Clive Silcox in that flat
with Adelaide Burrowes?
He was local at the time.
24B Lake Street.
That's right.
- Only 500 meters from the Towers.
- The big old neighborhood.
Silcox had a history of allegations
of violence against women.
Once in 2009. and then...
May 2011. Yeah. What else?
They went to school together.
Silcox and Errol Mathis.
St. Joseph's. Two thousand plus kids.
A couple of years apart.
Silcox had a sister. Leanne.
who was close with Errol's cousin.
Cousin? Yeah. we've all got cousins.
Some more than others.
Did you even interview him?
- June...
- To eliminate him from your investigation?
Tell me. June. are you familiar
with the term "unconscious bias"?
I did the away day. for my sins.
I got the badge.
It was all very. very instructive.
Now. you see.
the thing about unconscious bias...
I'm aware of what unconscious bias is.
Yeah. well it's for the slow ones
at the back. No offense. Roy.
Sometimes. you see. an officer can bring
to a case a certain distorted view.
Owing to their own. dare I say it.
preexisting prejudice.
Prejudice. Prejudice?
Okay. All right.
Well. let's split the difference. Faith?
Conviction? How about that?
See. June here. she's got a conviction
that this Errol Mathis.
a man for the record.
of West African heritage. yeah?
Has been hard done by
for reasons that are opaque.
Except there was an emergency phone call.
Once more with feeling.
Two phone calls. Two women.
Two phone calls. One woman.
We can't... We cannot rule it out.
You are aware of how many women
were the subject of domestic abuse
in this city. last year alone?
Of course you are.
- Almost a quarter of a million.
- Yeah. Wow. almost a quarter of a million.
Both Portuguese speakers.
Portuguese. that's a broad church.
We're talking about 80.000.
90.000 right here. right now.
Which is why we should commission
forensic expert analysis...
For God's sake.
...to confirm is it. or is it not.
the same woman on both calls?
Okay.
And what about her? Maria?
Who? The victim.
Not to mention the lab costs.
We're running a five-figure
overspend as it is.
We've got a man in custody willing
to plead guilty for her murder.
Saving her mother. her brother.
her two orphan boys the agony of a trial.
Her body is already on its way home
to São Paulo. This is good news.
Yet you want to risk blowing all this up
over some hobbyhorse.
Maria had two old stab wounds.
Shoulder. Abdomen.
The Hayes Lane caller also reported
receiving stab wounds from her partner.
And she said. "he stabbed her."
meaning Adelaide.
"many. many times
with the same knife he put in me."
Sorry. where is this coming from?
- These are her words from the call.
- I'm not talking about the call.
I was talking about
Ms. De Souza's injuries.
Tell me. June.
have you seen the path report?
I think what matters here...
No. I'm sorry to labor this.
but that path report was sent
confidentially to Viv and her team. right?
Yeah? So. unle...
Viv. did you share it with DS Lenker?
- No. sir.
- "No. sir."
So. I'm bound to ask.
how did it come across your desk?
It didn't.
Someone share it with you?
No.
So. what? You're a hacker then.
and you're in league with North Korea?
You're telling me
you didn't read the path report?
No. sir.
So. where are you
getting your information?
I saw them.
You saw them?
I was first responder.
When I found Maria. naturally.
I checked her vitals.
I saw them.
I saw her injuries.
Two faded injuries. Split second.
Two callers. Matching stab wounds.
Does that shorten the odds at all?
Go.
Clean contact.
Right. so it's all in the timing.
Gotta... You see?
Okay.
Go again. That's perfect.
Yes! That's great.
- Try again.
- Okay.
Come on. Yeah. that's good.
What's this? Extra training?
Right. Come on then. Hold on. Right there.
Wait. Okay. wait. Wait.
What a goal!
You learn everything from me.
- Everything from me.
- Mum. it's a handball.
You're embarrassing yourself.
Let's go again.
Hello?
Well. you've got your wish.
Given. I quote. "The exceptional nature
of the circumstances."
Prisoner coming out.
You are cleared to interview the suspect.
Thank you.
Yeah. but. the interview plan
will be vetted in advance. all right?
Okay.
Specific reference
to the murder of Adelaide Burrowes
is off-limits. Understood?
Fine.
Other than that. you're good to go.
Thank you. sir.
Clive Silcox. you've confessed
to the murder of Maria De Souza.
But I'm here today to ask
for your cooperation with another matter.
In March 2011. you were residing
at 24B Lake Street. Is that correct?
Yeah.
Do you recognize this man?
Do you know him?
Errol.
Errol Mathis.
You went to St. Joseph's together?
Yeah.
You knew the family?
Right.
You're aware that Errol Mathis
- is serving a lengthy prison sentence?
- Thanks.
Twenty-four years. right?
Correct. Do you know where?
- Whitecross?
- Whitecross Prison. yeah. that's correct.
- So what?
- DS Lenker.
Do you know why?
Yeah.
- Sorry...
- It's common knowledge.
If you're trying to entrap my client...
No. I just want him to say it.
What's her name?
- Right.
- Say it. Say her name.
I am now terminating this interview.
The time now is 14:36.
The fuck is she on about?
- He knew 'em. He knew them both.
- June.
- Dan. do you wanna...
- No. You go ahead.
In light of your request. DCI Hegarty
thought it prudent to go the extra mile
and run a complete forensic analysis
on the two emergency calls.
It's definitive.
The phonetician and the engineer
both reached the same conclusion.
Different stresses.
Different vowel sounds.
Different women.
- What?
- There was absolutely no doubt.
Your Hayes Lane caller
was not Maria De Souza.
There is nothing whatsoever to tie
Clive Silcox to this old murder.
Yes?
Agreed?
Let's put it to bed once and for all.
All right?
What is it with you?
I mean. look at Chloe.
She hasn't got a problem.
She just gets on with it.
And what about Professional Standards?
You got back to them? No?
Get on with it.
They'll be on you for misconduct.
June.
He was right. I was wrong.
Fuck. I fucking hate that.
Look...
There's a rumor.
The day after Silcox
murdered Maria De Souza...
Hegarty had that forensic report
on the two calls fast-tracked overnight.
What?
He knew the two callers were different
and he...
He sat on the report.
Wait.
That whole meeting.
Agreeing to the interview.
Why? Why would he do that?
Never waste a good crisis.
He played me.
It was a trap and I walked right into it.
He thinks. knock me down so hard
I won't get back up again.
No.
Not me.
He had a girlfriend. long time ago.
Same like me.
He said. "Dumb bitch. Never listen."
Never keep him. you know. happy.
He stabbed her many. many times
with the same knife he put in me.
There's a man in prison
doing 24 years for killing her.
And he keeps saying this guy
in Whitecross...
He says he's such a loser and that...
When was this?
Last Tuesday.
Listen. these calls are confidential.
If you tell anyone about this.
they will fucking destroy me.
Here.
I thought you were Muslim.
I'm Sikh. you knob. Singh? Sonya Singh?
We drink this shit like it's Lucozade.
All right. You were wrong.
You lost the battle. boo-fucking-hoo.
You know what?
She's alive.
She's the one person
who can help Errol and she is alive.
Yeah.
And we're gonna find her.